The Goal of the project is to build a collaborative flexible collection of programs to perform FEA analysis.

How would the project be flexible?
 Instead of a single program performing all the task, the Project shall be divided in to small simple programs. Each simple program shall be performing a single task. A program shall retrieve data from a file generated by the previous program, process it and write another file and let the next program take the control from there. The generated files shall be in human readable form. The sequence in which the programs run shall be controlled by a single process control program. The sequence would be easily tweak-able by the end user enabling him to write his own program to tweak the data. The user may then add his own program in the sequence and contribute to the project.
 
What would be the preferred programming language used?
 Well the plan is use C++ as much as possible. But nothing is fixed. You may use whatever language you are comfortable with. The initial programs have been written as Octave scripts and are slowly being ported to C++. So its up to you. Still it is recommended to stick to C++ or C, so that the size of the project and its dependencies are limited.
 
What are the libraries planned to be used.
 The Project is in a very nascent stage to know what all libraries would be used. It is planned to used well maintained, cross platform, open source libraries. As of now the planned libraries are the following.
 1. Qt C++ for most of the project, specially the UI.
 2. VTK for 3D modelling.
 3. Armadillo for matrix operations.
 
What shall be the license of the Project?
 There shall be no fixed license for the whole project. Each program may have its own preferred license. Although contributions should be only in an Open Source License (OSI approved ONLY, see https://opensource.org/licenses ). The recommended license is GPL v3 (General Public License) but its in no way Compulsory. You may add a license of your choice to your independent program.
 
What is the current status of the Project?
 See STATUS.md to know.
 
Can my name be added to the list of contributors?
 Sure it can be added. If your contribution is accepted into the project, you can add your name and email address to CONTRIBUTORS.md.
 
How to compile it?
 Install GCC, make and Armadillo Library. Support is limited to Linux as of now. Will be ported to Windows soon.
 
 

